# David Keenan Interview

##### About

A lover and a fighter, Glaswegian writer David Keenan does not pass through this world unnoticed. He has had a song written for him, a TV character based on him, he's been quoted in The Wall Street Journal and played support on the night Oasis got discovered. He's been writing for The Wire since 1995 and has also written for NME, Mojo, The Sunday Herald and written liner notes for Throbbing Gristle, Albert Ayler, Pita and Gary Smith to name a few. Keenan's debut book, England's Hidden Reverse, which is being re-printed next year, plus his many contributions to The Wire, have been crucial in his quest to champion unpopular art, culture and music. Having played and written about music for years, Keenan, while keeping his toe in the water, is now focused on writing fiction. Fascinated with the esoteric, Keenan's novels have found a home at the head-quarters of weird publishing house Strange Attractor. David Keenan's first novel The Comfort of Women is set for publication in late 2014.

## Fifteen Questions with David Keenan

### Self-made man

### Everlasting Yea

A lover and a fighter, Glaswegian writer David Keenan does not pass through this world unnoticed. He has had a song written for him, a TV character based on him, he's been quoted in The Wall Street Journal and played support on the night Oasis got discovered. He's been writing for The Wire since 1995 and has also written for NME, Mojo, The Sunday Herald and written liner notes for Throbbing Gristle, Albert Ayler, Pita and Gary Smith to name a few. Keenan's debut book, England's Hidden Reverse, which is being re-printed next year, plus his many contributions to The Wire, have been crucial in his quest to champion unpopular art, culture and music. Having played and written about music for years, Keenan, while keeping his toe in the water, is now focused on writing fiction. Fascinated with the esoteric, Keenan's novels have found a home at the head-quarters of weird publishing house Strange Attractor. David Keenan's first novel The Comfort of Women is set for publication in late 2014.

**When did you start writing about music - and what or who were your early passions and influences?**

I started writing about music when I was 16 years old. I was initially inspired by the upsurge in DIY culture that was happening in the UK in the mid-1980s, where you could still go into a store like Virgin Records on Union Street in Glasgow and pick up fanzines, things like Coca Cola Cowboy and Simply Thrilled Honey and The Same Sky. I started my own fanzine, it was called Firm N Fruity and we had features/interviews with people like The Pastels, The Vaselines, The Shop Assistants, Marine Girls, Pussy Galore, stuff like that. Seeing The Pastels and The Vaselines live at Fury Murrys in 1987 changed everything for me. 

But it was definitely my discovery of Lester Bangs that sent me into overdrive. The first edition of Psychotic Reactions And Carburetor Dung became my bible and I can still quote from it verbatim. I was still living at home in Airdrie when I first started writing. Airdrie is a small town about 21 miles outside of Glasgow, a magical small town actually, populated by eccentrics and weirdoes, despite its reputation as being ugly and a rough place to grow up in. 

I would talk about Lester like he was a friend that I had been having a conversation with, you know, like telling my mum that ‘Lester says Astral Weeks is... blah blah blah” Luckily my mum shared my passion for stuff like Lou Reed, so she could put up with it. My dad was more into Perry Como, who I learned to love later in my life and who I would take over Frank Sinatra or any of these light entertainment bozos any day of the week. Listen to a song like “It’s Impossible” or “For The Good Times” and get back to me. That shit is elemental. But I can’t really listen to it without crying. 

The thing about Lester was that he joined the dots between a bunch of what, up until then, had seemed like mutually exclusive passions and articulated an aesthetic that I was attempting to make sense of myself, you know, what was it that linked 60s garage band music and high energy Detroit rock and free jazz and psychotronic movies and horror and sci-fi and literature and Cleveland avant garage and poetry and outsider art and noise and psychedelic music and improvised folk and country blues and punk? That was – and is – exactly where my head was at. Plus he was really romantic, like me, and so he was kind of an intellectual soundtrack to me falling in love with arty girls from Glasgow and feeling doomed and fated and caught up in it all. 

From there I dug deeper into the more gonzo US rock/write scene, getting into Richard Meltzer and Nick Tosches and Robot Hull and Creem and picking up zines like Throat Culture and Muckraker and Bananafish and Forced Exposure and distro lists like Fourth Dimension and Shock and Fisheye. I remember travelling to New York for the first time with my brother where we stayed at Alan Licht’s pad. He was living in Hoboken at the time, back then he looked like a young Charlie Watts and he had a picture of him just above his bed. His flat was a crazy mess, with copies of Alan Silva triple LPs just lying on the floor outside of their sleeves and the hairiest sink I have ever washed my face in and like mold growing on the bedroom wall. It was amazing, and he gave me all these photocopies of original, uncollected Bangs and Meltzer and Tosches articles – this was well before they were compiled in books or available on-line - and it felt like the goddamn motherlode. Since then I have lost interest a little in Meltzer and Tosches, it feels kind of like a schtick and there’s not much to learn there. I get tired of that simple goofing off with little soul or heart or understanding, plus I think, like so many writers, they kind of ossified stylistically and became kind of bitter. Though Tosches has written some good books, for sure, Bangs has stayed with me. There's something so personal and super-smart and earnestly real and original about his writing that always speaks to me no matter where I’m at.

So I decided to send some of my writing away to a music magazine, I was writing night and day at this point, reviewing anything, taking notes on everything, really working. In other words, trying to live out my own model of what a writer’s life was like. Sitting up until four in the morning in my attic room at my mum’s house in Airdrie typing, I drank whiskey and hated it but forced it down regardless, writing while I had friends around drinking and playing music, really trying to live it, to make it real. I saw an advert in this short-lived UK music magazine called Spiral Scratch looking for writers. I sent them a review and they published it and the next thing I knew a box of LPs arrived at the door for review for the next issue. It was amazing. The magazine folded pretty soon after wards, but it was briefly resurrected by the staff as MXPress, which I also wrote for. After that I got a job writing for Melody Maker, back when its brief was wide enough to include interesting music, and after I wrote a piece on Japanese underground music, based around the release of the Virgin 2xCD set Cosmic Kurushi Monsters in 1996, complete with a cool picture of Keiji Haino, I got a message on my answering machine from Tony Herrington, who was the editor at the time, asking me if I wanted to come over to The Wire and write for them instead. I loved The Wire and had been reading it for years and had often thought of pitching something to them but I always wondered if I was smart enough, so it was kind of a dream come true. I owe Tony a lot for his belief in me at such an early stage and my subsequent career. Since then it has been my true place of freedom as a writer. I remember buying Einsturzende Neubauten’s Hause Der Luge LP in 1989, I was 18 years old, the one with the big horse cock on the front, which was enough in itself, and then reading Biba Kopf’s liner notes and thinking, "fuck me, will I ever be smart enough or brave enough to get all of this?" I still think it’s great that I get to work alongside him these days and count him as a friend.

**What are your main impulses to write about music?**

Evangelism, enthusiasm. I think of myself primarily as an enthusiast, in every aspect of my life. I am a yea sayer, never a naysayer, I’m not against stuff, I am totally for it. I’m not a protestor; it’s just not in my nature. I like things. My main motivation is to sing the praises of what I consider the bravest, most daring, most personally resonant and transformative music and art and literature and lifestyles out there. I like to give voice to more marginal concerns and fight for their place in the culture at large. I guess because I’m a weird person, unfathomable even to myself sometimes. 

I’m always attracted to people who invent their whole life, who are extraordinary and who don’t give in to the conformist pressures that would deny a truly satisfying and fulfilled life to most of us. I think it’s a brave thing to do. 

My greatest love is for the genuine artists, the people who are driven to create no matter what, regardless of musical standards or public opinion or acclaim or financial reward, which goes back to my obsession with DIY. To me doing it yourself and self-publishing is the hallmark of artistic seriousness, that you believe in what you are doing so strongly that you don’t wait for the approval of anyone else and you put it out yourself, which invariably involves art and music that is so ahead of the curve that the audience or infrastructure or context for understanding it doesn’t exist yet, so it's art and music that dares to act as the catalyst for its own understanding.

I like to think that’s what I do myself in my own writing, and I try to catalyse new understandings of radical art, music and culture, generating the kind of context in which super personal stuff like Jandek, The Dead C, Keiji Haino, Heather Leigh, Matthew Valentine and Harry Pussy can be understood and thrive. 

Of course I have no problem writing negative reviews or sinking the boot in when needs be, ha ha. I don’t go looking for stuff to write negative reviews about though, I prefer to write about what I love but if I am commissioned to write about something and I end up not liking it, I am incapable of deceit or masking my opinion, even when it might be politically expedient or personally advisable, which has cost me many friendships and countless hostilities across the years. But I don’t care, in fact I enjoy it, I enjoy the attacks as much as the praise and respond to them both as variations of the same energy. After all, where would the Wire letters page be without me? 

Plus I am a rocker at heart, I like a bit of glam and sex and savvy and style and attitude, I like tough-ass shit, I’m just not into baldies with laptops. What can I say? I have a low geek threshold.

**What do you personally consider to be the incisive moments and pieces in your journalistic work and/or career?**

Joining The Wire was a major one. Meeting Richard Youngs in Glasgow in the early-90s was a big one, not just because I was such a fan of his music, but he had boxes of hard-to-find, underground vinyl that he was getting through Jimmy Johnson at Forced Exposure in the US. At the time it was totally unavailable in the UK and he sold me a ton of it, so it was the first time I was ever able to get my hands on stuff I had previously only read about, things like LPs by KK Null and The Dead C and Vermonster and Biota. 

Another big moment was meeting the late Trevor Manwaring, he was a great friend and I got in touch with him just before I moved down to London and got a job at The Wire. He worked for Harmonia Mundi, a classical music label and distributor, and had somehow managed to talk them into distributing PSF and associated Japanese underground labels and I remember seeing an advert in The Wire listing the titles they were bringing in to the UK. I couldn’t believe it, I mean this was the early 90s, no one in the UK knew about this shit. So I called him up looking to get hold of some of this stuff and when I eventually moved to London we became fast friends and he turned me on to so much great music. He put out CDs by Derek Bailey and the Spontaneous Music Ensemble and High Rise and Fushitsusha on his Chronoscope and Paratactile labels. He funded a series of Fushitsusha recordings at Toby Robinson’s Moat Studios in London, where these days they record most of the Big Finish Doctor Who audio adventures. 

Together we promoted the first Musica Transonic/Toho Sara/Mainliner tour of the UK in the mid-90s, where average audiences ranged between five to ten people. Back then there was a secret cabal of people exchanging information about Japanese underground music in London and Trevor initiated me into it. There was Trevor, myself, Kevin Martin (who went on to do Techno Animal/The Bug et al) and Edwin Pouncey (aka Savage Pencil). Between the four of us we would trade information and contacts and fliers and recordings, just pooling our knowledge about this new Japanese music. Plus we were lucky in that Alan Cummings, who also writes for The Wire, was living in Tokyo at the time and he is fluent in Japanese, so he was our point of contact and our foreign correspondent. He would drop into Modern Music, the shop run by Hideo Ikeezumi, who also ran the PSF label that released Fushitsusha and High Rise and Ghost and White Heaven et al, and he would scour the bins for us and report back on what was available. That’s how I managed to pick up original vinyl by Keiji Haino, Fushitsusha, Nijiumu, Maher Shalal Hash Baz, White Heaven et al, when there was no way of getting them domestically. It was a very exciting time. 

My first book coming out was a big one, England’s Hidden Reverse, that was an important milestone, uncovering that reverse tradition was so inspiring and I’m still in love with that world, the world of Crowley and Kenneth Grant and Arthur Machen and Austin Osman Spare and Charles Sims and Stenbock and supernatural fiction and Timothy D’Arch Smith and Ralph Chubb and William Lawes and more recent passions like Denton Welch and Baron Corvo and H. A. Manhood and Arthur Calder Marshall and Peter Anson etc. I never tire of Coil, they’re still one of my all-time favourite groups, plus records like Of Ruine Or Some Blazing Starre by Current 93 or Soliloquy For Lilith by Nurse With Wound will always have a special, inviolable place in my heart. 

Plus I still read a lot of magick and I love publishers like Teitan Press and Tartarus and Strange Attractor. I am especially obsessed by Charles Stansfeld Jones aka Frater Achad, who Crowley believed, for a time, was his magickal son. I’m especially interested in his relationship with Malcolm Lowry. If I could go back in time I would love to walk to Malcolm Lowry’s cabin in Dollarton in Canada in the dark in the 1940s with the poet Al Purdy and spend the night drinking and talking with Purdy and Lowry and Stan. 

Then there were various stories and features that have meant a lot over the years, my cover story on the New Weird America caught that particular wave of underground USA activity right at the moment of its self-revelation. It was also a very important moment for me personally, meeting many of the musicians I had been writing about and in touch with for years for the first time, people like Jack Rose, of course my future wife, the beautiful artist and musician Heather Leigh, Tom and Christina Carter of Charalambides, Dredd Foole, Glenn Jones, Byron Coley, Marcia Bassett, Joshua Burkett, Paul Flaherty, Chris Corsano, Matt Krefting and Jessi Leigh Swenson etc. 

Also my various profiles on lifers like Derek Bailey and Peter Brotzmann were big for me. I’m also really fond of things like my Invisible Jukebox with William Bennett of Whitehouse, he has one of the best quotes ever in there, which I always come back to. He says he would never describe himself as an atheist, how identifying yourself as that involves buying into some kind of relationship with the concept of God. "Is a chimp an atheist?" he asks. "I’m like the chimp", he says. And the chimp can make music. I love that.

My favourite pieces are where I’m able to capture the personality of an artist or musician or character. I’m most interested in people and how their art interacts and informs their life, so I’m proud of pieces I did on people like Peter Walker and Conrad Schnitzler. On my recent Dead C cover, who are one of my favourite groups of all time, it feels like I came close to capturing what they are like in their lives, their energy as people. I hate boring critical exegesis. You learn more from the way a person walks or how they cook a meal or what they bring up in conversation than from some prude standing at the side of a dance floor with their shirt tucked in taking notes. I’m the guy on the dance floor, with the pretty ladies, always. 

For the past six years or so I have been primarily focussed on writing fiction, which has become my central practice and my main interest. I finished my first novel, The Comfort Of Women, after five years of fairly intensive daily work which was a big milestone for me and I’m very happy with it. It’s being published by Mark Pilkington’s Strange Attractors press, who are also releasing a new edition of England’s Hidden Reverse later this year. I have two more novels in the pipeline after that, The Tomb Of The Song, which is an annihilatory kabbalistic rendering of the story of a group of abysmal temporal adventurers obsessed with historical and literary subterranea, and Adieu To All Judges And Juries, which is a hallucinated oral history of a fictional music scene in Airdrie, Coatbridge and environs, which is where I grew up in the 1980s. 

Also, negative factors have been inspiring too, working for IPC and writing for Melody Maker and NME was so disillusioning, it was all so horribly politically correct and was all about ticking the right boxes in terms of the qualities you noted in things. Plus it was super conservative, really, and then having gigs writing for more mainstream music magazines and newspapers, you realise that you are not employed to turn anyone onto anything new or to express a new opinion, you are simply there to repeat things that people already believe to be true, to bolster pre-established canons or to reinforce opinions that they already hold. Anything else is simply not allowed, it’s soul-destroying and it requires that you become a caricature or a cliché to survive, or more properly a cipher, just like celebrity itself. I am psychologically unable to put myself through that. There is no freedom there. As I said, thank god for The Wire.

Mainstream culture simplifies everything but alternative culture has its own orthodoxies and rules and simplifications and dos and don’ts.  I prefer to steer clear of them all. I belong to no school, I abhor ideology, whether Marxist, Fascist, Capitalist, post-modern, critical, libertarian, feminist, misogynist, any ism, basically, as if any one viewpoint can explain the world. I try to exist, fully, in one moment and then the next, always new, always unique, and always accepting. I hold Marxism as a form of fundamentalism that’s every bit as rigid and flawed and mystifying and life-denying as Christianity or Islam. I don’t believe in some fantasy Utopia. I don’t need it. I’m a lover. I refuse all of these orthodoxies. But people want you to sign up and get mad when you don’t. Most people are recruiters more than experiencers. I refuse to experience the world or art through any prism but that which I have carved with my own bare hands and that I have fought for tooth and nail.  And I still believe it is possible to do that, despite all of the social and cultural pressures that we are subjected to. I see it in all of the extremely personal art that I champion and so I know it is possible to create your own universe and step outside of orthodoxies, even in difficult situations. William Blake was so right when he said “I must create a system or be enslaved by another man’s”. That’s my fundamental artistic credo right there. But mostly I just like to sit back and watch the river flow. 

**How would you describe and rate the music scene of the city you are currently living in and how important is it in terms of what you're actually writing about?**

I love Glasgow, it’s one of my favourite cities in the world and the heart and inspiration of so much of what I write about. I could never imagine myself living in another city, certainly not in the UK, it’s very romantic and beautiful and wild and has a crazy energy, all of which suits me perfectly. I like a certain wildness, I’m a rough kind of person myself, in some ways. 

However, I have little interest in supporting ‘local’ talent. Although I have always boosted anything interesting that happened to take place in Glasgow, my view has always been international. I will always support what I consider to be great art no matter where it comes from. I despise that whole parochial outlook, that whole ‘it’s happening on your own doorstep man’ bullshit, the dull duty of nationalism. What’s that Bill Hicks line about it being the place where your parents happened to have sex? Exactly. I feel no responsibility whatsoever to support or help foster anything locally or internationally or anywhere. I like good art/music, no matter where it comes from, end of story. 

Of course there are great things happening in Glasgow and so much good music comes through here. That wasn’t always the case though. For years during the late 90s/early 2000s I curated the Le Weekend festival in Stirling in central Scotland and I brought over artists like Fushitsusha, Patty Waters, Ghost, Kazuki Tomokawa, Kousokuya, MV & EE, Shizuka, Flaherty/Corsano, Dredd Foole & The Din, The Dead C, Jack Rose, Borbetomagus, Pelt, David S. Ware Quartet, William Parker, Arthur Doyle, The No-Neck Blues Band etc for the first time. This was well before festivals became an established platform for presenting underground music, so hopefully that set some seeds. Still, I could give a fuck. I brought over the music that I most wanted to see, end of story. 

Glasgow has always had a good DIY scene with The Pastels et al and today there are great groups and musicians here like Richard Youngs, Heather Leigh, Smoke Jaguar, Andrew Paine, Ali Roberts, The Flexibles etc. There are scuzzy low-rent musical ghettoes just like everywhere else too, a really depressing bottom-of-the-barrel ‘noise’ scene etc but I steer well-clear of that stuff. 

A big thing about Glasgow is that the people are in love with language, they are so creative with it and I still love overhearing conversations and continue to be inspired by the liberties they take with it and the sheer invention of it. Outside of the Hebrews, the Glaswegians are the most language-obsessed race in the world. I owe a big debt to both cultures and have been studying Hebrew for several years now. It’s almost as complex and magical as Glaswegian. It’s a love that I share with my friend Matthew Valentine. When we first met each other, on that same first trip I took to New York with my brother when we stayed at Alan Licht’s place, I met him in the record shop where he was working alongside my pal Dean Roberts, Rock-It Scientist. We immediately hit it off with our love for language and the vagaries of various sub-cultures and the endless goof potential inherent in that. Matthew is an honorary Glaswegian, one of the most accomplished instinctive Kabbalists I’ve ever met and a true old soul at the helm.

**When it comes to music journalism, what are your criteria for quality? What are currently your main challenges and ambitions as a writer?**

Art that is super personal is what moves me the most, not merely formal innovation for innovation’s sake but art that feels dictated entirely by the awkward contours of the individual making the music. Art that refuses to surrender itself to trivial demands such as consensual tongues, standard notions of fidelity, normal rhythm, explicable syntax, accepted timings, etc. It’s the unspeakable vision of the individual or nothing for me. 

My challenge as a writer, specifically as a music writer, is to write in a way that matches the music, that lives up to it and that doesn’t betray it, either by over-analysing it or under-estimating it, all the while walking the line between an instinctive/sensual feel and an intellectual understanding. 

I have just as little time for anti-intellectual bullshit as I do for prissy academic overanalysing crap. Somewhere between the two is where I’m at. I think they are both very safe vantage points from which to engage with music and culture and neither of them interest me. I am always trying to write in a way that is as enjoyable as listening to music, something that has an essential relationship to the music, not simply a footnote or an addendum. I enjoy reading Lester Bangs in the same way that I enjoy listening to The Dead C.  

My main challenge recently though has been finding a fictional form that works best for me. I spent three years writing a novel which I then trashed completely and that’s the advice I would give to anyone who wants to write fiction. Write one book, then destroy it, then write another one. If you are able to do that then maybe you have a chance of becoming a writer.

I want to memorialise, that’s a primary urge with me. I am nostalgic, for sure, I’m sentimental, definitely. I want to write books and pieces in a way that serves as a memorial for magical people and that in its own way becomes a magical person, like a golem or an Adam Kadmon, if you know what I mean. Small events are great events, like blood into milk, like the miracle of the mass. I want to remember, lovingly, but also hatingly... just to be fair, you understand.

**What do you usually start with when working on a new piece?**

First sentence, then first paragraph... if you can get your first sentence right then I feel that everything in the piece is somehow coiled in there and implied by it. Normally I will pick up on a phrase, a statement, a particular moment and I will feel it vibrating inside my body ready to cut loose. I never take notes, I just let things percolate inside me to the point of explosion, then I dash it down, re-read it and if it's right I tidy it up, the first sentence or two, then I walk away and come back to it which is when the bulk of the work begins. As long as I have that opening, the correct rhythm in the first sentence or two, I can normally relax and know that it’s is all in there somewhere, that I have captured it, still alive, and writhing, trapped in there waiting for me to tease it out or otherwise seduce it. 

Rhythm is incredibly important to me. I hate an un-rhythmic sentence, a clumsy turn of phrase. If it doesn’t swing – and I have an odd sense of swing for sure – it must have that quality of musicality, of feel, somehow, this biologic sense of rhythm to work for me, otherwise it’s ugly, forget it. 

Also, I like to write at night, I have to write at night. It’s a waste of a night if I don’t write something, be it working on commissions, a novel, liners etc. I write almost every night of my life and it’s my favourite thing to do. I do understand the terror that writers talk about when faced with the blank page, no matter how many times you successfully pull off a great piece of writing it feels like you are always back to square one every time you start over. It’s amazing and exciting and so weird and it never gets any easier. It's still my first and truest love and I am addicted to it and I don’t know what I would do with myself without it. 

**Tell us a bit about the selection process for deciding on what to write about, please. What sources will you draw from for research purposes and how much time goes into research, information gathering and fact-checking in general?**

I am an obsessive researcher. I hate to get things wrong. Though mostly I draw from my own stack of knowledge. I have been collecting books and records since my teens, my house is like a crazy archive, and I turn to my own collection before I would ever Google something, somehow that feels like cheating, if you’re writing about something you should be an expert in it, you should be the one that is best versed in it. Unfortunately I’m seeing a lot of writers now whose sole source of information you can tell comes straight from the internet. You can tell if someone lives and breathes it or if they have to look it up, it’s there in the feel.

**As more and more people are producing and releasing music, there has been an exponential growth in promotion agencies. What's your perspective on the promo system? In how far is it influencing your choice of articles and topics, in how far is it useful for pre-selection, in how far do you feel it is possibly undermining journalistic freedom?**

I am completely outside of it, no one gets in touch, those that do I ignore. I am beyond influencing and driven like a monomaniac towards writing about things that I love and nothing else. The only influence promo people have on me is I’m less likely to write about it if they reach out, ha ha. I am a purist in that way.

**How do you see the role of music journalism in the creative process? Should it amplify public taste, distinguish the good from the bad, inform, promote artists, or, as Howard Mandel put it, “illuminate, educate and entertain” readers? Do you feel that, as part of your work, music needs to be explained or should it retain its “inexplicable nature”?**

Definitely it should remain inexplicable. It is inexplicable, ultimately. I try to create a context, an aura, a feel but I try to do that from nowhere. I hate to come out of any school, to try and rationalise art/music according to some ism or school of thought. I hate that. I like writing because it is a lonely, private, non-collaborative pursuit. I’m not a joiner. I dislike group thought or large gatherings of people. I would hate to be simply voicing or advancing some kind of critical or socio-political standard that I inherited or read about in a book like most writers. 

I want to live the art/music beyond ideas. To me I can’t read a book without wanting to live it, I can’t listen to music without wanting to play it, to see how it walks down the street. It has to become a part of my life. I write about it from the inside. I can’t be dispassionate. I am always disappointed to meet authors or musicians or other music writers and find that they are ordinary and dull and that what they do seems to have had no impact on the way they live their lives or how they hold themselves or what they do on a day-to-day basis or the originality of their conversation. 

I am allergic to ordinariness and I can’t understand people who don’t let art and music affect them to the point that their very existence is permanently re-formatted. Otherwise what’s the point? But I find I don’t have much in common with many music writers or authors in general. I like to look good, I like to keep in good shape, I like to fight, I box every week, I’ve been boxing for years, I like to look after myself, I love beautiful women and stylish men, I like good food and good beer, I like fine things, I like to smell good. I find that people involved in underground or alternative culture – on the whole - are simply buying into yet another orthodoxy or way of being where there are certain standards and rules of behaviour and political suppositions and interests and looks, even. I am not into that at all and can’t relate to it. That is why I am most attracted to unique people, to one-offs, to extraordinary lives. That’s what I most want to capture in my profiles, the personality of the artists, the way they live their lives as a total artwork, voracious artists like Peter Brotzmann and Derek Bailey. But I also find extraordinary people in all walks of life, which is why I also like to move in fighting circles and drinking circles and fashion circles and wilderness circles and magickal circles and astronomy circles. Anything that isn’t ordinary and that might attract extraordinary people. Otherwise I need to get the hell away from it.

**Music journalism has frequently been attacked for merely expressing opinion. On the other hand, it is precisely personal interest in an artist and/or his work which frequently provides for a stimulus to delve into them in more depth. How would you describe the importance of subjectivity for your writing?**

All of my favourite writing is intensely subjective, how is it possible to be any other way? I don’t believe in objective standards but at the same time you do have to have a strong feeling that your tastes are somehow ‘right’ in order to make convincing arguments. It’s a total contradiction I know, in that there are no objective standards yet I believe my taste to be objectively correct, ha ha... 

You play your part with gusto, is what I’m trying to say. While knowing deep down that there is no particular truth to it, you do it for the fun of being yourself, for the joy in the endless winging, which is how Aleister Crowley describes it. In the Bhagavad Gita, Arjuna at first refuses to join the battle because he realises he is fighting against husbands and fathers and his own kinfolk basically, but then he has a moment of epiphany where Lord Krishna appears on the battlefield and lectures him on personal dharma and weakness of heart and implores him to get back up and join the fight regardless. "As brothers fight ye" is another great quote from Crowley about the same thing. In other words, get stuck in and play your part but realise that the stakes are really not that high and that in the end everything is forgiven. But still, play it as if it was for keeps, because she’s the only game in town and she loves a player. Strength of devotion is all. Love, basically.

For me the best writing, like the best music or art, is highly idiosyncratic, non-systematic and absolutely devoted. My favourite writers are people like Malcolm Lowry and Blaise Cendrars, wild, obsessive writers. Cendrars is a particular inspiration, not just in his amazing prose but in his lust for life and his all-devouring energy that manifested itself in so many ways. The Astonished Man is the name of one of his books. I would like to think that could be my epitaph and that I could live up to it, somehow, in the end.

**In which way does writing and reading about music change the way it is perceived by the public?**

At its best it can make you listen in new ways, hear new things, upturn your assumptions and open your ears.

**Whom do you feel your obligation to – the artists, the readers, the publication you're writing for? In how much do you feel is music journalism restricted by external factors?** 

No obligation to the artist at all beyond taking what they do seriously. If you suffered from any obligation beyond that, I think you would be completely paralysed in terms of expressing an opinion. I feel a certain responsibility towards the reader, in that I feel you should convey some kind of useable information to him/her/it. Responsibility to the magazine? Sure. You’re representing them and you want to do your best, especially in a place like The Wire, where the standing of writing is high, overall. But I really don’t feel restricted by external factors at all. As I have said, The Wire has been a true place of freedom for me where I get to write about what I like, how I like. I am aware that is a very privileged position, especially in this day and age, and that it’s increasingly a rarity, to have that much freedom and get paid for it.

**Journalism and writing have changed considerably over the past century. What, do you feel, could – or should - be new forms and formats for music journalism?** 

I would like to read music writing that was closer to the experience of listening to music, synaesthetic writing, sensual writing, writing as music as art as literature. Most music writers do not have the vocabulary to deal with sound-as-sound and so they fall back on social criticism or zeitgeisty themes, that’s why they prefer to write about music that intersects with the mainstream or the culture at large, it’s easier for them to write about non-musical concerns. I’d like to read music writing that doesn’t betray the music itself.

**Music-sharing sites and -blogs as well as a flood of releases in general are presenting both listeners and artists with challenging questions. What's your view on the value of music today?**

I think music has been de-valued to a certain extent. It has lost some of its aura and some of its mystery. The whole process of tracking records down, these talismanic objects secreted in various off-the-map locations, and the process of piecing together discographies, it was all a kind of initiation in a way. It’s too easy now and some of the fun has gone from it because of that, as well as a lessening of respect for artists and writers and creators. 

I hate the way that on the Internet, art can be stolen and yet the thieves retain the moral high ground. When I see people like Kenneth Goldsmith of UbuWeb tweet things like, if you put your work on-line you should expect to have it stolen, darling, it sounds to me like rape logic, you know, like if you put it out there, darling, you are in effect asking for it. But people like Goldsmith have a vested interest in convincing other non-creative types, that lack of talent is in fact a talent. It helps them feel better about themselves. Uncreative Art as an ideology is kind of like the Samaritans for art school losers. And of course it relies on having someone else create original art in the first place. 

I’m not a very online-focused person. I have little interest in the internet. E-mail is a chore. I have attempted various blogs and online things over the years but I always lose interest and resent the time and attention they demand and end up abandoning them or shutting them down. I like books and long walks and records and food and drink and conversation and human beings sitting right in front of me looking fine.

**Please recommend two magazines or journalists to our readers which you feel deserve their attention.**

The Wire is still the best music magazine out there. I still get a kick when I see it on the shelves of some high-street store, it’s the last bastion.  I am a voracious reader and hoarder of magazines, journals, fanzines and small press publications, a random selection of some that have been important or formative over the years would include Black To Comm, Abraxas, The Malcolm Lowry Review, Tree, Faunus: The Journal Of The Friends Of Arthur Machen, Doctor Who Magazine, Reforesting Scotland, Mimeo Mimeo, Forced Exposure, Mayfair, Wormwood, Strange Attractors Journal, Personal Best, Men Only, The Comics Journal, Logopandocy, Io, Coyote’s Journal, 2000AD, Root Branch & Mammal, Leg Sex, The Equinox, Creem, The Cimaron Weekend, Arken Sword. 

**Please recommend two artists to our readers which you feel deserve their attention.**

I’ve talked a lot about music so I’d like to recommend two of my favourite visual artists. I’m hugely fascinated and attracted to mannequins and dolls and the secret children created by Morton Bartlett are amongst the most beautiful creations, not to say the most precious and heart-breaking examples of do-it-yourself art, longing and desire, that I have ever encountered. I also remain completely under the spell of the photographs of Bernard Faucon, specifically his Summer Camp series from the 1970s, who another one of my favourite artists, Giselle Vienne, introduced me to. When I die I hope to be reincarnated inside one of his photographs. I suspect that’s where heaven is, if it’s locatable anywhere.
